Situated at the western border of [Neverfield]], Aramoor is one of the oldest villages in the country. Founded in 217 P.C., the cozy town has somehow survived ice ages, Orc invasions and plagues. Aramoor was founded by [[Vukon Faust]], a gold prospector who found a particularly rich vein of the precious metal along the border of Khazzadum and Neverfield. He settled a bit further into the woods, and began operations digging and selling gold. Unfortunately the gold ran out after several years, but in that time the people working in Aramoor ran into a hidden kingdom of elves. Initially the elves were trepidant and somewhat hostile, but the charismatic Vukon was able to convince them that the humans meant no harm. Slowly, the two races learned to live in harmony, even spawning a sizable population of half elves.

All good things eventually come to an end. In 258 P.C., barely a year after a treaty of friendship was signed between the humans and elves, Vukon sent spies into the elvish palace and stole all manner of elixirs, arcaneum and religious artifacts. Historians believe that Vukon was morbidly afraid of his mortality. Jealous of the elves’ longevity, he sought to concoct a potion that would help him live forever, mistakenly thinking that elves lived so long due to a magical secret. This caused a rift between the races, eventually resulting in a bloody battle between man and elf. Using the stolen artifacts and with the help of several elvish defectors, Vukon somehow managed to defeat the elves. Just as the Palace of Golden Leaves was stormed and burnt to the ground, King [[Glanduil Daedithas]] and 3 of his most trusted wizards called upon their God - [[Sehanine Moonbow]] - to forever curse the town of Aramoor. Just as the incantation was completed, Vukon’s men burst into the throne room and cut down the elves.

It took a year for the people of Aramoor to realize the extent of the curse. One day, every person who had been living in Aramoor when the attack happened began to develop an insatiable thirst for blood. The thirst gnawed at them for a week, and some succumbed to their bloodlust, murdering and drinking the blood of people in the streets. As the streets ran red with the blood of his people, Vukon was himself struggling with the same temptation. But for him and his family it was different. They did not crave just any blood, but the blood of their relations - husband, wife and children. Vukon, realizing the extent of the terror he had wrought, gladly offered himself up to be sacrificed and drained by his wife and three children.

The aftermath of Erui Elef (the First Thirsting) was far-reaching. Nearly half of Aramoor’s population had perished. Even worse, those who survived realized that even leaving the village did nothing for the curse. Every year, on the day now known as Middevaren, the entirety of those descended from the Betrayers of Elven Trust and Desecrators of the Golden Leaves will descend into a bloodied frenzy, hungry for blood. 

Thus did the curse linger, until the adventuring party known as [[Madness Leashed]] arrived to deal with the Faust family and their present-day patriarch, [[Cyril Faust]]. By interfacing with the vengeful ghost of King Glanduil, they managed to end the curse once and for all. Today, Aramoor is a recovering town with a budding forest conservation movement. Led by [[Shinki Woodswool]] and protected primarily by [[Alice Faust]], an ex-member of [[Madness Leashed]].