One of the oldest cities on the continent, Ortem-Velak started as a fort and homebase for the Tel-Amhothlan empire, who first landed in Mirovia after the Cataclysm shook through the very foundations of the material plane. As a powerful force of progress and self improvement, the empire took in refugees from various other parts of Mirovia who were left homeless by the torrents of mind-eating creatures from beyond the void, resulting in a remarkably diverse and varied demographic of citizens. 

As denizens of Ortem-Velak began to spread out across the lush forests and azure coastlines of what is now modern day Helonde, the Tel-Amhothlan and their leader, the benevolent Matron Dolores, began to plan for the future of their budding nation. As the old Mothers of Tel-Amhothlan got older, there was a brief period of silence from the Mother School of Pelanto. Like a caterpillar, they were entering a cocoon, preparing to emerge as a butterfly. And emerge they did, in the form of the new nation of Helonde. 

With a clear focus on production and wealth, the heirs of Tel-Amhothlan, newly rebranded as Melith-Ndarre (Mothers of the Wind) sought to expand the borders of their budding nation beyond just the coastal city of Ortem-Velak. The ever-loyal Nevaarin, run by House Tallashi and their first matron Tsah’kla Tallashi, became the key arm of militaristic power by which Helonde expanded its borders. However, despite all the aggressive expansion, Ortem-Velak remained the capital of Helonde, and the abode of Melith-Ndarre. Today, Ortem-Velak is also the place where most aspiring workers in Helonde go, seeking a place in one of the many factories that produce furniture, food, furs/clothing, glass, and most notably, jewelry and metal products from the various jewel/metal mines dotted around the nation. Popularly known as the City of Gold, that name only applies to the central district known as Principe Melith, whose buildings are often covered in gold and silver embossing. Some streets are even (literally) paved with gold. The same, however, cannot be said of the other 5 quartiers, all of which are large, densely packed boroughs which serve to produce a particular type of item for trading. In between each of these well guarded districts are the open and often dirty marketplaces as well as the middle-class residential areas, rife with merchants and scammers trying to fake their way into Principe Melith.

Some say that to this day, the spirit of Matron Dolores lives on, commanding every action of the Melith-Ndarre and ensuring that the original vision of the Tel-Amhothlan empire is not lost to time. How she is able to do so, remains a mystery to most...