Sanahar is the capital of [[Ashana]], and by far the largest settlement in the arid nation. Located a distance away from Lake Habbanyah and River Barah, Sanahar was initially founded over 1500 years ago when a child of the desert named Amir discovered underground water pools and rivers that connected the lake and river under the nutrient-rich Wadi valley. At the time, Ashana was primarily made up of 12 principalities who were each independent and warring with each other. Amir became leader of a small settlement within the valley, which turned out to be excellent farmland, and eventually ascended to kingship within the valley thanks to their unending charisma. They turned their ambitions outwards, towards a unified Ashana, and began their conquest. The wars were frequent, as were the victories. They soon became known as the first God-Emperex Amir I of Ashana, a child of the desert who grew into a great conqueror. They was well liked by their subjects, who worshiped them as a savior from the pain and suffering that came with desert life. Under their rule, the Ashanian empire grew, forming trade deals with its neighbors. Throughout all this, Amir and their descendants made sure that the nation would be open and vibrant. The arts were fostered, and the unwanted scum of other regions learned that Sanahar was a place where their talents and interests could be nurtured. Though her streets are poorly maintained and winding, and though the rate of crime is incredibly high, thousands still flock to the Pearl of the Desert in hopes that they might spot the eye of a talent scout, or set up a business within city walls.

Today, the current God-Emperex Mansour-ki-Vor has long retreated into their chambers, leaving their city and nation to essentially run itself. Sanahar itself has managed to thrive even with the threat of oncoming war, as exports of salts and spices from within the desert remain of utmost importance to the economy of the nation. 