#myth 

The Cataclysm was a major event in Mirovian history that brought about the end of the [[Arcane Age]] and led to the World-At-Arms period, colloquially also known as Post Cataclysm (P.C.). In the absence of the [[Enlightened Ones]], arcane magics invented by mortalkind caused unmitigated technological advances. Great flying cities powered by magical conduits were where most of Mirovia's denizens lived, and even the common folk were capable of spellcasting.

The precise reason behind why and how the Cataclysm occurred is unknown, and concrete evidence is exceedingly rare if not absent, since most if not all written knowledge was destroyed during the Cataclysm. Modern scholars primarily believe that some mages of a now destroyed civilization based in [[Khazzadum]] sought to construct a method for the continent of Mirovia itself to travel between planes. They activated their creation during a [[Conjunction]], where the planes were all aligned. This experiment did not go well, and the resulting arcane explosion ricocheted throughout all [[Knots of Arcana]] throughout the continent, piercing through all planes and bringing forth untold monstrosities from realms beyond.

Experts estimate that the initial event killed nearly 40% of the [[Material Plane]]'s inhabitants, and the resulting fallout (ash clouds and released monsters) killed nearly 40% more over the next century. The overflow of primordial and extraplanar energies threw the very fabric of reality into chaos -- magic became unstable and even mundane items became dangerous to handle. In order to restore the world to a controlled state, a great sage devised a ritual that would allow her to ascend to the Exalted Plane and draw from the domain of Magic. Though her mortal name is now lost to time, her contributions to the recovery of Yuuroborous were paramount. Today, she is known as [[Mystra, the Lady of Mysteries]].

In Mirovia, most major powers were all but eliminated, though a small enclave of mages known now as [[Magus Supremum]] managed to salvage enough to restart civilization in Mirovia, with the aid and counsel of Mystra. They managed to shut off the rifts to other planes and began the process of healing. Belhaven was completely run over by otherwordly monsters, and remains wild in the modern era. The continent of [[Gethron]] was utterly destroyed, leaving only a large atoll behind which is today known as the [[Ruined Isles]].

Over time, groups of adventurers and hunters were formed and the culling of monstrosities left over in Mirovia began. Without control over divine domains and with most arcane magic lost, this was an exceedingly dangerous affair, leading to many deaths. However, the [[Synchrony of Apotheosis]] was not forgotten, and in desperation, a group of powerful mortals of the realm ascended to the Exalted Plane, effectively replacing the Enlightened. Fearing that unnecessary meddling in mortal affairs would result in a repeat of the end of the Enlightened Age, the new deities, who called themselves Gods, signed the [[Rudian contract]], which drew a [[Veil of Divinity]] over the [[Exalted Plane]] and all other planes. With the Veil in place, no God could directly interact with their followers, nor leave the Exalted Plane, save for the use of clerics and paladins. With the drafting of the contract, thus began the [[World-At-Arms Period]].