#myth

# Creation
Before the beginning of recorded time on [[Yuuroborous]], the first [[Primordials]] (known now as the [[Ancient Ones]]) brought forth three masses of land from the primordial soup that encompassed the [[Material plane]]. These landmasses would later become known in modern times as [[Belhaven]], [[Mirovia]] and [[The Ruined Isles]]. The Primordials gave birth to a trickster god named [[Ang-Toril]], and bestowed upon him the plane of Yuuroborous to sculpt as he saw fit. In the playhouse of the material plane, Ang-Toril first created 10 siblings so that he would not be alone -- these were the [[Enlightened]], the First Gods of Yuuroborous. Like children, the Enlightened bickered and squabbled over control of the lands that their parents had wrought.

# The Birth of Mortalkind
Ang-Toril saw an opportunity in the greed of the Enlightened, and slyly gifted each a piece of the Plane and the energies that powered its continual growth. Each Enlightened begot mortalkind in their image, and shaped the lands to their liking, like children playing in a dollhouse. In this time, now known as the Enlightened or First Age, the mortal avatars of the Enlightened walked the Material Plane, living and conquering amongst their worshipers. They brought with them gifts of [[divine magic]], drawn from their [[divine domains]]. However, when tied inextricably to the material and mundane, each deity began to feel mortality creeping into their being - for if a God is not worshiped, their power wanes.

In the First Age, mortalkind were treated as insignificant beings, mere playthings for the Enlightened to enact their battles and fodder for their conquests against each other. Aloof, violent and often cruel, the Enlightened were blindsided when one of their number was brutally murdered. Like a fickle child, Ang-Toril had become weary of his siblings' meddling in _his_ world. [[Krekelvar]], creator of [[Goblins]] and ruler of the domains of Trickery, Banes, Fertility and Oppression, was known for his cruelty, and his assassins were none other than his own mortal creations. The goblins, pushed to the brink by their endless torment and goaded on by Ang-Toril himself, created a sequence of traps so intricate and deadly that even the mortal avatar of a deity could not survive.

# The War of Enlightenment
With the death of Krekelvar, the remaining Enlightened reacted in fear and desperation, striking out at each other and attempting to exert stronger control over their mortaldom. This led to the [[War of Enlightenment]], a centuries long war between the Enlightened and their spurned mortal creations. Alliances were formed and broken, and nearly all mortalkind perished as the Enlightened used their divine powers to call forth protectors from their respective domains. Nevertheless, through ingenuity and sheer numbers, the Enlightened were eventually overwhelmed and destroyed, their essences absorbed back into their respective domains.

# No Gods
The great experiment of Ang-Toril was completed, his siblings vanquished, and so he stepped forth to take control of the mortal realm once more. However, he had not accounted for the fact that mortals borne of different domains would set aside their differences in the name of survival. By combining the weapons used to kill the Enlightened, he too was vanquished by champions of each Domain, sent to the [[Far Realms]] where he would remain for all eternity.

A world without deities is a strange one. In the absence of the Enlightened, mortalkind's connection to the divine was severed. Divine magic was lost, and the gifts so gleefully doled out to mortals were rescinded. Thus ended the Enlightened Age, and what followed is now known as the [[Arcane Age]].