The Tulkari Insurgency began in 936 P.C.. The insurgency began in Ashana, as a group who called themselves [[The Golden Fist]] attempted an assassination on the God-Emperex Mansour-ki-Vor. Though the attack was quelled, evidence soon came to light that the attack was planned by allies of the Houses of the Melith-Ndarre, rulers of Helonde. As the armies of Ashana prepared to march into Helonde, more agents of the Golden Fist appeared, and began to organize a full-scale rebellion. Only the Emperex's most loyal Cardaces remained by their side, and bloody battles began to spread all across Ashana. Throughout this, and seemingly without provocation, large raiding parties from Helonde began to make incursions into Ashanian territory, causing even more strife. Neighboring nations Neverfield and Ancosia began to get involved, as it was revealed that the Golden Fist had performed assassination attempts in Northrun and Nionosea. Various rebellions seemingly blossomed from nowhere, causing widespread fear and violence in the most populous regions of Mirovia.

Meanwhile, the Melith-Ndarre were in danger of their own. It became clear that certain members of the Noble Houses were eager to go to war -- too eager. Matron Maliamor of House Mortagne sought to seize control of the Melith-Ndarre, going so far as to place the entire city of Ortem-Velak under magical lockdown and threatening to usurp Matron Dolores, progenitor of the Melith. The heroic party known as Madness Leashed discovered that Maliamor was loyal to a long-extinct Elven kingdom known as Tulkari, and had been planting agents and starting rebellions in different regions, in hopes of overthrowing the already chaotic political dynamics of Mirovia and rising again as a superpower.

Matron Maliamor's plans were ultimately foiled, and she (along with fellow insurgents) were imprisoned in Ancosia's fabled Eternal Oubliette, a prison from which there is no escape.

The Tulkari insurgency destabilized several of Mirovia's key powers, and led to the deaths of thousands of innocent lives. To this day, an air of suspicion surrounds the leadership of affected nations -- the once prosperous partnership between Helonde and Ashana was fractured; the already zealous kingdom of Neverfield retreated ever further into its shell; and Ancosia began producing more and more arcane technology for its own protection. Only time will tell if a continent-wide conflict was on the horizon.